In my opinion, the bot user should have the following property:

(1) they send the message to many other users

(2) averagely, each receiver do not get too many messages from this bot

(3) the bot send a message very quickly, there are lots of short time interval between the adjacent message

(4) they are active, have longer online time

(5) not many receiver reply to their message

(6) in the unite time, they send lots of messages

(7) their send message time have a typical periodic pattern


To use these criteria, we need to extract the statistical summary for each sending user. A loop is designed to do this

(0) chose one sending user

(1) extract a data frame which contains all the sending logs of this user from the original log file

(2) (a)extract the time list of sending messages. 
    
    (b)Calculate the time interval between every adjacent message. 
    
    (c)The start time and the end time determine the online time.

    (d) After remove the relax time which is a long time interval (for example, longer than 2 hours), we will get the active time of this user.

    (e) count the short time interval, (eg, less than 10 seconds)

    (f) calculate the mean and median value of all the time intervals. Finally use the mean value in the following analysis

    (g) use the FFT algorithm or other technique to test the periodic property of this sending message time list, calculate the p.value of the periodic test
(3) count how many message receivers, how many messages totally, how is the average number of message for each receiver

(4) extract another data frame that contains all the receiving logs of these users. Count how many receivers reply to this user. how is average message reply to this user

(5) how much percentage of the receiver reply to this user

(6) count how many different age types in the receivers

(7) count how many platforms this user use


Use the clustering method, we can see two different groups of users, one containing 992 users is probably the bot users cluster. But, I do not want to use this method to determine the bot users.

I want to use the criteria and the statistical summary of each user to calculate a score which indicates the probability of being a bot



score = (avtive online time) * (number of sending messgae)^2 * (number of receiver) / ((average message for each receiver)* (median value of time interval) * (percentage of reply users) *(p value of periodic test))



here we can see the higher this number, the higher probability of this user is a bot

After calculating all the scores, choose the ones which larger than 50 as the bot. This is based on the information of the former clustering analysis, and some specific rule: the user should send many messages, the median time interval should not be too large

After doing some tests, I  use threshold 50 can roughly find 1235 bot users.




Among these potential bot users, I did a clustering analysis again to divide these users into groups.




Although I classify them into 4 groups, groups 3 and 4 are very similar. 

They are the bots with high possibility. Their logs have a clear non-randomness pattern, 

they send each receiver 5 messages in less than 2 seconds, and can receive also 5 messages back in a very short time.

these feedback messages probably are automatically generated.

The other groups do not have so clear periodic pattern in the sending message time and have different active time in each group.


(1) In this short time, I can not test more different type of score, This should be left in the future if we can have more users information

(2) there is still the possibility to improve the periodic analysis, this is crucial to detect the bot user behaviors

(3) there are still other ways to determine the probability of being the bot based on the statistical summary. Need to work on it in the future


